Pure functions are defined by three characteristics.
First, they always return the same result if the same arguments are passed in.
This means that even if you call the function a million times,
the function will return the same value every single time.
Second, they depend only on the arguments passed into them.
In other words, they'd never access values outside of their own scope.
The return value of a pure function is determined only by its input values.
And finally, pure functions should never produce any side effects.
This means that the function has absolutely no interaction with the outside world,
such as making network requests or mutating external state.
If a function passes all three of these requirements, then it's a pure function.
If it fails even one of these,
then it's an impure function.
Remember that we're trying to manage state predictably.
Impure functions aren't bad,
but they are inherently not predictable.
On the other hand, pure functions are predictable,
and this is why we need our functions to be pure to increase state predictability.